# Interview guide 
_UX recruitment stage 2A_  
_60min face to face_  
_Room: must have a screen, whiteboard, and a table_  
_Materials: ensure there’s whiteboard markers, sharpies, paper, and post-its_
\
\
—
## Welcome
Explain the interview is an hour exploration of their experience and design approach, that materials are provided for them to use as they wish, and questions are time-boxed so we may prompt to move on, but not to worry…  
Before starting, ask if expectations are clear or they have any questions?
  
## Part I  
  
  
  
**Describe your journey to meet us today**  
However you like… it could be a story, a picture, or interpretive dance — but in five minutes or less.  
> 5min. The intention is to see how they communicate their journey to the interview.  
We’re looking for i) pragmatism, i.e. complete the exercise in time, ii) prioritisation, i.e. describe the high-level journey first, then loop back and add detail. Enthusiasm and storytelling are promising signs and strong candidates will instinctively want to visualise their thinking — do they quickly and clearly get their point across?  
  
  
  
## Part II
Let them tell their story, but have a conversation: probe, question, explore.  

**Tell us about a piece of work you’re particularly proud of, and why**  
> 15min.  
  
**Tell us about something that didn’t go so well, and what you learnt from it**  
> 15min.  
  
**In your view, what makes a great UX’er?**  
> 5min.  
  
  
  
## Part III  
  
**On-the-spot scenario**: Your team was just briefed that you need to collect a user’s date of birth in their online account to meet a senior stakeholder’s new requirement. It’s annoying, but it’s just one of those things the team has to do—by the end of next week.  
  
What practical steps would you take to get this out fast, but still as good as it can be?  
> 10min. The intention is to see how they approach work in a team delivery scenario.  
We’re interested in what questions they ask, where they push back, and how pragmatic they are. Look for signals of team work, iteration, simplicity, and rapid turn-around.  
  
  
\
—  
Any questions for us?  
